.TH qlop "1" "Mar 2018" "Gentoo Foundation" "qlop"
.SH NAME
qlop \- emerge log analyzer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qlop
\fI[opts] <pkgname>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
qlop reads from $EMERGE_LOG_DIR/emerge.log and tries to extract
information about merges, unmerges and syncs.  For packages, it can
calculate average merge times or just list them.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gauge\fR
Gauge number of times a package has been merged.  This shows the merge
time for each individual merge of package.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
Calculate merge time for a specific package.  This is the average time
for all merges of package.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR
Print seconds in human readable format (needs -t), using minutes, hours
and days instead of just seconds.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
Show merge history.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unlist\fR
Show unmerge history.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sync\fR
Show sync history.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-current\fR
Show current emerging packages.  This relies on FEATURES=sandbox in
order to detect running merges.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fI<arg>\fR, \fB\-\-date\fR \fI<arg>\fR
Limit selection to this time (1st -d is start, 2nd -d is end).
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fI<arg>\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR \fI<arg>\fR
Read emerge logfile instead of $EMERGE_LOG_DIR/emerge.log.
.TP
\fB\-\-root\fR \fI<arg>\fR
Set the ROOT env var.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print package versions and revisions.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Tighter output; suppress warnings.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-nocolor\fR
Don't output color.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print this help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version and exit.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.br
Product: Portage Development; Component: Tools
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Ned Ludd <solar@gentoo.org>
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR q (1),
.BR qatom (1),
.BR qcache (1),
.BR qcheck (1),
.BR qdepends (1),
.BR qfile (1),
.BR qgrep (1),
.BR qlist (1),
.BR qmerge (1),
.BR qpkg (1),
.BR qsearch (1),
.BR qsize (1),
.BR qtbz2 (1),
.BR quse (1),
.BR qxpak (1)
